## Probability & Central Limit Theorem

### Learning goals

  0. How to work with **RMarkdown**.
  1. How to look at Probability Distributions in R
      - Discrete Probability Distributions
      - Continuous Probability Distributions
  2. What the Central Limit Theorem is
  
---
  
### RMarkdown revisited

You all successfully handed in your first assignment in `R Markdown`. Now it's time to learn a bit more about it.

`R` Markdown documents have the file extension `.Rmd`. Markdown is a simple formatting syntax for authoring HTML, PDF, and MS Word documents. For more details on using `R` Markdown see <http://rmarkdown.rstudio.com>.

When you click the **Knit** or **Preview** button in `R`, a document will be generated that includes both content, as well as the output of any embedded `R` code chunks within the document. A `R` code chunk is anything that goes between ```` ```{r} ... ``` ````.

You can embed a `R` code chunk by typing it out or with a shortcut in RStudio (Mac: `Cmd+Alt+I`, Windows/Linux: `Ctrl+Alt+I`).

#### Chunk Options

Chunk output in your final document can be customized with knitr options, arguments set in the `{}` of a chunk header. Here are some useful arguments:

  - `include = FALSE` prevents code and results from appearing in the finished file. R Markdown still runs the code in the chunk, and the results can be used by other chunks.
  - `echo = FALSE` prevents code, but not the results from appearing in the finished file. This is a useful way to embed figures.
  - `message = FALSE` prevents messages that are generated by code from appearing in the finished file.
  - `warning = FALSE` prevents warnings that are generated by code from appearing in the finished.
  - `fig.cap = "..."` adds a caption to graphical results.

See the [R Markdown Reference Guide](https://rstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/rmarkdown-reference.pdf?_ga=2.169319849.94966807.1602002830-1180689241.1600075670) for a complete list of knitr chunk options.

#### Text formatting options

For formatting options, we recommend the [R Markdown Cheat Sheet](https://rstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/rmarkdown-cheatsheet-2.0.pdf?_ga=2.195559076.94966807.1602002830-1180689241.1600075670).

---

## Probability

All the probability functions are defined in R already. To call them you have to combine a prefix and the distribution name.

The prefixes you can use are d, p, q and r. When to use which prefix?

 1. Use **d** when you know x and want to know the density at that point.
    - The result is a point of the probability mass/density function.
    - If you put in a range of x values you will get the **PDF/PMF** of the distribution.
 2. Use **p** when you know q and want to know the probability up to that point.
    - The result is a point on the cumulative density function or the area under the probability density function.
    - If you put in a range of values you will get the **CDF** of the distribution.
 3. Use **q** when you know the area p and want to know the x value
    - This is exactly the opposite to p.
 4. Use **r** if you want random numbers drawn from a distribution.
    - The result is a sample from a distribution.

 5. The distribution names are:
    - binom for the Binomial distribution
    - norm for the Normal distribution
    - unif for the Uniform distribution
    
For each of the distributions you need to specify different parameters! 

In this lab, we will discuss Discrete as well as Continuous Probability Distributions.
We will also plot probability mass functions and cumulative distribution functions.

---

## Central Limit Theorem

Finally, we will want to better understand the central limit theorem. To do so, we will generate a random population and take random samples from it to illustrate what you learned in the lecture:
The sampling distribution of the mean always approaches a normal distribution, regardless of the shape of the original distribution!

---

## Set Seeds

Setting seeds is extremely helpful for the homework and replicability in general.
To do so, use the command `set.seed()`. This allows you to reproduce e.g. random draws, so that your results do not change when you rerun your code.
